Add Turbo Timber Evolution airframe build (#2102)
PX4/PX4-user_guide: en/frames_plane/turbo_timber_evolution.md

- SIK telemetry radio
- MS4525DO differential pressure module and pitot tube
- [Caddx Vista FPV air unit](https://caddxfpv.com/products/caddx-vista-kit)
- [DJI FPV Goggles](https://www.dji.com/fpv)
- [ExpressLRS Matek Diversity RX](http://www.mateksys.com/?portfolio=elrs-r24)
- [Custom designed 3D printed parts](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-user_guide/raw/main/assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/3d_printed_parts.zip)
  - Pixhawk 4 Mini mount and top GPS mount
  - FPV pod and camera mount
  - Pitot static pod and wing hardpoint hanger
- Misc hardware: M3 hardware (standoffs, washers, bolts), XT30 connector, hot glue, heatshrink, Molex Microfit connectors
- Silicone wiring (14awg for high current, 16awg for low current, 22awg for low power and signals)
- 3.6Ah 4S LiPo OR 4s2p 18650 LiIon

## Airframe Build

The TTE comes out of the box very complete as-is.
Servos and linkages have already been installed, and the only real work remaining is finishing work, such as installing the landing gear and horizontal stabilizer.
For this portion of the assembly, I simply followed the manual.

## FPV Pod

> ![Window and front fuselage (hatch) with FPV Pod mounted on top](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/fpv_pod_hatch.jpg)

Reviewer: I added the words here to make the image "accessible" - that means if someone has impaired vision they get a description of what the useful part of the image is showing.

Now I'm not sure how many such people will be using these docs but it is still useful because it helps you understand why you are showing the image.

![Underside of hatch showing the FPV pod attachement screws and wires pulled through](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/hatch_underside.jpg)

The FPV pod was mounted on top of the battery hatch using M3 nylon hardware.
Mounting holes for the pod were located by placing the FPV pod on top (being careful to center it with a ruler) and then punching through the fpv pod mounting holes into the foam with a screwdriver.
A long M3 nylon screw and a washer on the underside, followed by a washer and standoff on the top of the battery hatch were then be used to mount the FPV pod.

> ## Pitot Pod

Reviewer: This is the only section I have actually subedited so far. Some comments one what/why below.

At high level though, this was a set of images and some description that were pretty hard to follow. Explaining what you are doing and why, and the alternatives makes things much easier.

> A airspeed sensor is highly recommended for use on fixed wing vehicles.

Reviewer: It is worth assuming that your audience are completely new to aircraft. So why do they need to do this? Well, because an airspeed sensor is needed by fixed wing aircraft.

- If it is mandatory? If so we should update to say that.
- We could/should link to the airspeed sensor page for more information and options: http://docs.px4.io/main/en/sensor/airspeed.html

Author: Got it, I'll add to this section to yield more information. I don't know if you are familiar with FW, but no, it's not mandatory, I just did it for better state information since this was supposed to be a development/test platform.

> This build uses a MS4525DO differential pressure module and pitot tube housed in a 3D printed pod that has a hardpoint hanger for connecting it to the wing.

Reviewer: You have done something special/different here. Most people just buy and off the shelf job while you have created your housing by 3d printing - presumably to get a more professional mounting to the wing.
- What I have done is made it clear that you have done this because it isn't obvious from the parts list unless you know what a pitot is and the sensor. 
- We should perhaps say "why" - ... because this results in a better X, Y, Z.
- We should link to alternative sensor options "You can use any of the sensors here if you prefer".

> ![Pitot pod/tube sitting on a desk](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/pitotpod1.jpg)

Reviewer: I guess this image is just to show the final structure. If you had a more landscape image that might be better - i.e. it takes up a lot of unnecessary height.

Inside the pitot pod, the MS4525DO differential pressure sensor is housed and is connected to the pitot/static tube with a short length of tubing.
Zipties are used as hoseclamps to prevent the tubing from backing off.
The i2c and power leads were soldered directly to the MS4525 module, and then hotglue was used to mechanically reinforce the connections.

> ![Pitot pod opened up showing wires pitot tube connectors and wires soldered and hot-glued in place](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/pitotpod2.jpg)

Reviewer: Note, here I have split the description and the image - I think that makes it much easier to work out what the image is showing you, and why you provided it.

I am not proposing you do this, but what is even better than this is instructional steps like this:

1. Insert the wiring etc
    _image here_
2. Connect on wing to right of XYZ
    _image here_
3. And so on.

The reason is that if you have steps people can follow, they can't miss anything and neither can you. It makes the whole thing very structured and turnkey.

However as long as the information is here and the steps that need to be taken can be inferred, this is still able to pass the test "can people duplicate the work"

The pitot/static differential pressure sensor was mounted on the wing (outside the radius of the prop) using a 3D printed "hanger" glued to the leading edge of the wing.
An M2 screw and nylock hold the pod to the hanger.

![Turbo Timber Evolution Build](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/pitotpodinstalled.png)

These 4 leads were then taped to the underside of the wing running back to the Pixhawk 4 Mini.

> The lid of the pitot pod was initially taped in place to allow the setup to be tested and modified if needed after first flight.

Reviewer: FYI, just makes it a bit easier to read.

After the first flight, the lid was hot glued in place.

## Flight Computer Installation

> ![Turbo Timber Evolution Build](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/pre_mount_install.jpg)

Reviewer: I made this image landscape. If you had the plane in front of you, would it be easy to tell which way is the front? If not, should we (you) add an arrow to the image showing the orientation?

Author: It should be very easy to tell front vs back because of the servos. I don't think this image is ambiguous if you had the plane sitting in front of you.

![Turbo Timber Evolution Build](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/fpv_pod.jpg)

#### SIK Telemetry Radio

The plastic case of the SIK telemetry radio was removed to reduce weight and decrease volume of the module.
Heatshrink was used to electrically insulate the bare board and the radio was installed between the upper and lower flight computer mounts.

## Build Results & Performance

Overall, this build was a success.
Even with the added weight of the Pixhawk 4 Mini installation, the airplane balances well and has plenty of power to retain its original STOL characterisitics.
PX4 is easily capable of stabilizing the airplane and fine tuning of the rate loops were accomplished using the fixed wing autotune module.
The results of tuning can be found in the parameter file attached below.
In testing I found takeoffs can be as short as only 10ft using no flaps.
I use full flaps on landing to slow the otherwise slippery airframe.

### Performance

- Stall speed (no flaps): 14MPH indicated
- Cruise speed: 35-65MPH
- Takeoff roll (with full flaps): < 10ft
- Endurance: ~24 minutes on 5.2Ah 4s2p LiIon, ~12 minutes on 3.6Ah 4S LiPo

### Videos

> [Spot Landing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vMFCi3G5s6E)

Reviewer: do you want these to be links or displayed as video in place? We can support either?

Author: Video in place would be great! I googled around and didn't see any immediate way to do this. What's the incantation?

Author: Nvm, I found an example and added this. Thanks for the tip!

[A Quick Flight](https://youtu.be/1DUV7QjcXrA)

### Flight Logs

[Evening Flight (Includes video)](https://review.px4.io/plot_app?log=d3f2c1f9-f802-48c1-ab5d-3983fc8b8719)

### Parameter File

> 

Reviewer: Please add instructions or link to instructions on how these would be applied by a user who is just getting started?

Note, this is a lot of params - is it all the params or just the Diff vs the generic frame?

Author: I'll add a blurb on how to load them. As far as the scope of the params, this is a whole dump of the entire, I could do the airframe dump. I guess that'd probably be better to remove the calibration params.

Reviewer: Yes, we should point to calibration docs instead in the basic config page and state that people should still do that for their setup before flying.

> [Parameters](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-user_guide/raw/main/assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/tteparams.params)

Reviewer: FYI, not that you can't download files using the link format to assets - in the built version that ends up taking you to an empty page. The workaround is to link to the raw file - this will download from main when the docs are merged.

Author: Got it! Thanks!

> # Turbo Timber Evolution (TTE) Build
> 
> ![Turbo Timber Evolution Closup in a field](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/field_overview1.jpg)
> ![Turbo Timber Evolution Closup](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/field.png)
> 
> The Turbo Timber Evolution is a model sold by Horizon Hobby originally intended for classic line-of-sight RC model flying.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Turbo Timber Evolution (TTE) Build

The Turbo Timber Evolution is a model sold by Horizon Hobby originally intended for classic line-of-sight RC model flying.

```

> This model is designed to excel at STOL flying and has a number of notable traits that also make it an ideal candidate to be converted into an FPV PX4 platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This model is designed to excel at [STOL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/STOL) flying and has a number of notable traits that also make it an ideal candidate to be converted into an FPV PX4 platform.

```

> 

Reviewer: Add just one image back - well use the other below.
```suggestion

![Turbo Timber Evolution Closup](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/field.png)

```

Key airframe features:

- Spacious interior
- Top battery hatch
- Optional leading edge slats
- Fowler flaps
- Rugged landing gear with steering tailwheel
- Exterior lighting pre installed
- Optional floats
- Gentle flying characteristics
- Low drag with internal linkages and minimal protrusions

The goal of this build was to create a platform which could be used for general PX4 testing/development.
That design goal meant that naturally balanced controls representative of a "vanilla" airplane were desirable.
Because classic RC planes are usually designed to be hand flown with no computer augmented flight controls, they tend to be specifically designed to be well trimmed and balanced out of the box.
These airplanes also have more attention devoted to making sure they handle well in the air.
While it's possible to fly even the most simple foamboard airplane, a lot of nuance in airborne handling can be finessed with a bit more engineering effort.
This airplane is a premium example of that, with features like frise ailerons to minimize adverse yaw.

Key Build Features
* Easy overall build with minimal airframe setup
* Easy access to Pixhawk USB and debug connector

> * FPV with camera pan mount

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [First Person View (FPV)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First-person_view_(radio_control)) with camera pan mount

```

* Air data provided by wing slung pitot static pod
* Long flight times (with Liion battery option > 24 minutes)

# Build

## Parts List

- [Turbo Timber Evolution PNP (includes motor, servos, esc, etc, all fully installed)](https://www.horizonhobby.com/product/turbo-timber-evolution-1.5m-pnp-includes-floats/EFL105275.html#)
- [80A Plush-32 ESC](https://hobbyking.com/en_us/turnigy-plush-32-80a-2-6s-brushless-speed-controller-w-bec-rev1-1-0.html)

> - [Pixhawk 4 Mini/GPS/Power module/ set](https://shop.holybro.com/pixhawk4-mini_p1120.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Pixhawk 4 Mini](https://shop.holybro.com/pixhawk4-mini_p1120.html) (with GPS and Power module)

```

> - SIK telemetry radio

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [SIK telemetry radio](../telemetry/sik_radio.md)

```

- MS4525DO differential pressure module and pitot tube
- [Caddx Vista FPV air unit](https://caddxfpv.com/products/caddx-vista-kit)
- [DJI FPV Goggles](https://www.dji.com/fpv)
- [ExpressLRS Matek Diversity RX](http://www.mateksys.com/?portfolio=elrs-r24)
- [Custom designed 3D printed parts](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-user_guide/raw/main/assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/3d_printed_parts.zip)
  - Pixhawk 4 Mini mount and top GPS mount
  - FPV pod and camera mount
  - Pitot static pod and wing hardpoint hanger
- Misc hardware: M3 hardware (standoffs, washers, bolts), XT30 connector, hot glue, heatshrink, Molex Microfit connectors
- Silicone wiring (14awg for high current, 16awg for low current, 22awg for low power and signals)
- 3.6Ah 4S LiPo OR 4s2p 18650 LiIon

## Airframe Build

> The TTE comes out of the box very complete as-is.
> Servos and linkages have already been installed, and the only real work remaining is finishing work, such as installing the landing gear and horizontal stabilizer.
> For this portion of the assembly, I simply followed the manual.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The vehicle comes out of the box near complete.
Servos and linkages have already been installed, and the only real remaining work is installing the landing gear and horizontal stabilizer.
For this portion of the assembly, simply follow the manual.

```

> ## A Note On Power Systems
> [Some reports](https://www.rcgroups.com/forums/showthread.php?3904021-NEW-E-flite-Turbo-Timber-Evolution-1-5m-%C2%96-Smartest-Most-Capable-Durable-Timber-Yet/page50) have indicated that the stock ESC bundled with the airplane has an issue with overheating.
> Because I knew this build would be especially heavy, and therefore would likely demand higher average power from the ESC, I opted to replace the stock 60A ESC with an 80A Turnigy PLUSH-32.
> At the time of writing, I was also in the process of replacing the stock motor with a [higher rated power motor](https://hobbyking.com/en_us/turnigy-aerodrive-sk3-3548-840kv-brushless-outrunner-motor.html), but had not yet completed a test flight.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## A Note On Power Systems

[Some reports](https://www.rcgroups.com/forums/showthread.php?3904021-NEW-E-flite-Turbo-Timber-Evolution-1-5m-%C2%96-Smartest-Most-Capable-Durable-Timber-Yet/page50) have indicated that the stock ESC bundled with the airplane has an issue with overheating.

As this build will be especially heavy, and therefore likely demand higher average power from the ESC, the default 60A ESC has been replaced with an 80A Turnigy PLUSH-32.
The stock motor will also be replaced with a [higher power motor](https://hobbyking.com/en_us/turnigy-aerodrive-sk3-3548-840kv-brushless-outrunner-motor.html) (this has not yet been flight-tested).

```

> ## FPV Pod
> 
> ![Window and front fuselage (hatch) with FPV Pod mounted on top](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/fpv_pod_hatch.jpg)
> 
> ![Underside of hatch showing the FPV pod attachement screws and wires pulled through](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/hatch_underside.jpg)
> 
> The FPV pod was mounted on top of the battery hatch using M3 nylon hardware.
> Mounting holes for the pod were located by placing the FPV pod on top (being careful to center it with a ruler) and then punching through the fpv pod mounting holes into the foam with a screwdriver.
> A long M3 nylon screw and a washer on the underside, followed by a washer and standoff on the top of the battery hatch, were then be used to mount the FPV pod.
> 

Reviewer: I like text first.

```suggestion
## FPV Pod

The FPV pod was mounted on top of the battery hatch using M3 nylon hardware.
Mounting holes for the pod were located by placing the FPV pod on top (being careful to center it with a ruler) and then punching through the fpv pod mounting holes into the foam with a screwdriver.
A long M3 nylon screw and a washer on the underside, followed by a washer and standoff on the top of the battery hatch, were then be used to mount the FPV pod.

![Window and front fuselage (hatch) with FPV Pod mounted on top](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/fpv_pod_hatch.jpg)

![Underside of hatch showing the FPV pod attachement screws and wires pulled through](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/hatch_underside.jpg)

:::note
PX4 itself does not integrate with the FPV system, so this has no connection with the flight controller.
However it does need to be powered.
:::

```

The `msp_osd` module is used to stream telemetry to the Caddx Vista which can be seen on the DJI Goggles with the "custom OSD" feature enabled.

![Turbo Timber Evolution Build](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/fpv_pod.jpg)

#### SIK Telemetry Radio

The plastic case of the SIK telemetry radio was removed to reduce weight and decrease volume of the module.
Heatshrink was used to electrically insulate the bare board and the radio was installed between the upper and lower flight computer mounts.

## Build Results & Performance

Overall, this build was a success.
Even with the added weight of the Pixhawk 4 Mini installation, the airplane balances well and has plenty of power to retain its original STOL characterisitics.
PX4 is easily capable of stabilizing the airplane and fine tuning of the rate loops were accomplished using the fixed wing autotune module.
The results of tuning can be found in the parameter file attached below.
In testing I found takeoffs can be as short as only 10ft using no flaps.
I use full flaps on landing to slow the otherwise slippery airframe.

> ![Turbo Timber Evolution Field Setup](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/field_setup.jpg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Turbo Timber Evolution Closup in a field](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/field_overview1.jpg)
![Turbo Timber Evolution Field Setup](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/field_setup.jpg)

```

## Electrical

### Power

The Holybro power module was wired inline with the ESC.
A spare 16awg power lead was also broken out, terminated to an XT30.
This spare lead will be used to provide power to the Caddx Vista, but could also be connected to a splitter to power more peripherals.
Power for the servo and lighting will be provided by the "BEC" power supply in the ESC. 

![Turbo Timber Evolution Build](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/power_module.jpg)

The TTE is very flexible when it comes to battery options.
I use both a 3.6Ah 4S Turnigy pack as well as a Upgrade Energy 4s2p liion pack.
While the 3.6Ah LiPo is inexpensive, nearly twice the flight time (24 minutes vs 12 minutes) can be acheived with the Upgrade Energy Liion pack.

![Turbo Timber Evolution Build](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/batteries.jpg)

### Servos

Servos were wired to the flight computer in order of aileron, elevator, rudder, throttle, flaps, and FPV pan.
An additional power plug for the lighting system needs to also be installed, but it does not carry a servo signal so it can be put on any spare channel.

> The [Acutator Configuration](../config/actuators.md) screen is shown below.

Reviewer: FYI added this link to help people understand the image.

![Turbo Timber Evolution Build](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/qgcactuators.png)

Servo endpoints were obtained by using a servo tester to determine the servo PWM pulse width to reach the max travel of each surface in each direction.

### Config & Debug

Access to the Pixhawk 4 Mini requires removal of the upper mount.
While this isn't too difficult, it was a consideration for wanting to streamline debugging in the field.
A short right angle USB micro extension was used to allow easy access to the Pixhawk 4 Mini's USB interface.
The USB-A end of this cable was left dangling in the battery bay.

> Similarly, a JST PH to std spaced headers adapter was made, and it was also left easily accessible in the battery bay. 

Reviewer: Would be good to have a picture of the adapters. Wouldn't block this going in though.

Author: Yeah I wished I had taken one one. Unfortunately, they're buried in the airplane now, so that was the only reason I didn't include a shot.

Reviewer: Bugger!

### Peripherals

#### ExpressLRS RX

A custom cable was made to connect the ExpressLRS RX to the Pixhawk 4 Mini.
Because the Pixhawk 4 Mini has limited uarts, the RX was connected to RC input which does not have a TX pin.
This means that the RX will only send control data to the FCU but telemtry cannot be sent to the RX from the FCU.
Heatshrink was used to secure the dupont connector of the cable such that it cannot back out off the headers of the ExpressLRS RX.

#### Caddx Vista

Another custom cable was made to connect the Caddx Vista to the FCU UART and power.
A Molex microfit was added close to the Vista so that it could be easily disconnected without needing to gain access to the Pixhawk.
The `msp_osd` module is used to stream telemetry to the Caddx Vista which can be seen on the DJI Goggles with the "custom OSD" feature enabled.

![Turbo Timber Evolution Build](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/fpv_pod.jpg)

#### SIK Telemetry Radio

> The plastic case of the SIK telemetry radio was removed to reduce weight and decrease volume of the module.

Reviewer: Image would be nice showing this - but not essential

### Servos

Servos were wired to the flight computer in order of aileron, elevator, rudder, throttle, flaps, and FPV pan.
An additional power plug for the lighting system needs to also be installed, but it does not carry a servo signal so it can be put on any spare channel.

The [Acutator Configuration](../config/actuators.md) screen is shown below.

![QGC Actuator configuration screen for this build](../../assets/airframes/fw/turbo_timber_evolution/qgcactuators.png)

Servo endpoints were obtained by using a servo tester to determine the servo PWM pulse width to reach the max travel of each surface in each direction.

### Config & Debug

Access to the Pixhawk 4 Mini requires removal of the upper mount.
While this isn't too difficult, it was a consideration for wanting to streamline debugging in the field.
A short right angle USB micro extension was used to allow easy access to the Pixhawk 4 Mini's USB interface.
The USB-A end of this cable was left dangling in the battery bay.
Similarly, a JST PH to std spaced headers adapter was made, and it was also left easily accessible in the battery bay. 

### Peripherals

> #### ExpressLRS RX

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### RC Receiver

```

A custom cable was made to connect the ExpressLRS RX ([RC Reciever](../getting_started/rc_transmitter_receiver.md)) to the Pixhawk 4 Mini.

Because the Pixhawk 4 Mini has limited uarts, the RX was connected to RC input which does not have a TX pin.
This means that the RX will only send control data to the FCU but telemtry cannot be sent to the RX from the FCU.
Heatshrink was used to secure the dupont connector of the cable such that it cannot back out off the headers of the ExpressLRS RX.

> #### Caddx Vista (FPV camera)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### FPV Camera (Caddx Vista)

```
